We were talking about the bombings and how you felt
about the bombings and you said that you felt that
they should have been started sooner. Would you
care to continue on with that? Well, I don't know
when they started, you know, the bombings. You
said they should have started sooner. Well, I
thought you said that. Did I think they should have
started sooner? Yeah, I asked if you thought they
should have started sooner. I don't know when they
started, but they should have been going all the
time, I think. Well, they weren't. They didn't
start until the Vietnam War. So after the advisors
had been there, I mean, you know, first of all, it
was just all these many, many advisors that were
there, and then finally started sending troops
over. And it wasn't until later on that LBJ told
people that he lied to the American people and said
that they were not bombing him, and he'd already
ordered them, and he manipulated people into
getting them
to believe that they were doing the bombing. Let me
see. Okay. So you believe that the bombing was
extremely effective? Yeah, it felt effective
anyway. Well, do you think it would have been more
effective if they had not told the Vietnam about
it? Sure. Is this one of the things that you were
referring to back at the beginning when you said we
could have won the war? Oh, yeah. I don't see, well,
I don't think we warned anybody the cities in
Germany, when we bombed the cities in Germany. I
know we didn't warn the ones in Japan, and I know how
effective those were. We certainly didn't let
them know that we were going to bomb Hiroshima.
Right, that's what I was saying. Or Berlin. Hitler
did not know we were going to bomb Berlin. No. Any of
the other places. And because we didn't do that,
they were effective. I think we could have done the
same thing. They always knew whenever we were
going to do anything in Vietnam. They usually knew
before we did. Phil
Caputo said that that was one of the things that
really frustrated him, was that he felt the Viet
Cong knew what was going on more than before the
American minds had even made up their minds.
That's one of the things that bothered me, like the
people coming to work in the truck. Those people
knew hours, you know, 20 hours, 10 hours. But they
didn't tell us. They wouldn't tell us. Was Wes
Moreland at the base where you were? No. I don't
know where. I guess he was at MACV. I don't know
where he was at. He might have been in, I don't know.
Do you have any Jimmy Famous generals that were
there? Oh, yeah. Mo Meyer was there. He was a
four-star general. I liked Mo Meyer a lot. Had a lot
of respect for him. I saw him a lot, yeah. But there
was a lot of generals around. You know, you didn't
see them very much. One time, I remember they had
40, like 40 generals and admirals at Tonsenute at
one time for a meeting. And, you know, we were the
7th Pacific Air Force, and that was 7th Pacific Air
Force headquarters at that compound. We didn't
guard them anywhere. Part of us did, but they were
assigned to that unit. And all of these people were
at this, and they were all either generals or
admirals or above that, whatever it is. And we just
knew that we were going to get hit during that time.
I don't know why we didn't, but we didn't. But that
was a lot of brass in one spot at one time. Did you
know there were more generals in Vietnam than
there were in the entire Second World War? No, I
didn't know that. Yes, there were only about five,
six generals in the First Second World War. I mean,
there were very minimal ones, in excess of 30 in
Vietnam. A lot of the reason behind this was the
careerism. They needed a nice war on the record, so
they went over there and they spent some time
there. So they could get it on even if they were only
there six months. There were three months that
they'd been to Vietnam. And then they came back so
they could progress up the ladder. Makes sense.
This is a proven fact. Yeah. Not just hearsay.
Yeah. That it happened. I don't know how much this
was true in the Air Force because the Air Force was
still, you know, The Air Force has always been a
get-in-and-get-out outfit. Their officers
didn't linger around. Most of the ones that I've
talked to, and I've talked to a great many that went
to Hanoi Hilton,
They didn't stay there. They were in the
Philippines. Yeah. And they flew and landed there
where you were, and then they took off and flew
their missions and then flew back. Right. And they
just were hit and run type things, except for the
helicopters. Yeah, there was, you know, we had a
lot of, we had some reconnaissance aircraft
there. Did they have the F-84 there? F-84s? No. I
moved up to the Phantom F-4 jets. Yeah, they had the
F-4s, and then they had the A-1E Sky Raiders, or
A-1s, whatever. That's a Sky Raider. Prop plane.
And that was Vietnamese aircraft. They had an
American commander that flew the lead aircraft.
But there was a lot of pilots there. in and out of
there because of the aircraft that was there. And a
lot of C-130s and whatnot that flew in and out of
there. I was telling you about the bounty. We had a
girl, a South Vietnamese girl that was killing
pilots, killing anybody that was an American. And
she rode a motorbike, and she would Ride by, and she
used a .45 automatic, and she would kill anybody
walking by. She'd just shoot them and just never
stop. We had a very, very good shot. In the village
or at the Air Force? In Saigon. In Saigon. Yeah, and
on the outskirts.
And we had orders to kill her on site. Did you kill
her? Did anybody kill her? We, you know, we... We
looked for it. We wanted to kill her very bad. I was
wanting to real bad. And like I say, we were on duty
just at night. And of course, she operated a lot
during that time. And one night, we heard a
motorbike coming. And she had a driver, a man
driver, drove the motorbike. And she rode on the
back. And we heard this motorbike. It was quiet,
except for shots going off and stuff. It was dark
and it was quiet. And this motorbike was coming in
and weaved. What she'd do is she'd ride by MP posts
or security police posts and shoot them, just
harass them. She'd be gone before you could
recover. And so we heard this bike coming. And sure
enough, it was a guy driving and a girl on the back.
And so we loaded, you know, we put our M16s on full
automatic, and we were going to just empty those
clips, you know, same as she got. But we had to wait
for her to fire because we didn't know what she
looked like. And they all looked the same anyway,
so. Anyway, she got closer and closer, and she'd
weave from one side of the street to the other. And
she'd come plumb over to where we were. We were in a
sandbag bunker. And she got all the way over. And we
had, we were, I mean, we had her sights locked in on
her. And she never fired. And she got down the road
about 100 yards and an MP shot her with a shotgun and
killed her. He hadn't seen her before. So you
didn't get to kill her. So somebody got to kill her.
Somebody got to kill her. She got dead. She got
dead, but she killed a lot of pilots. Where'd she
collect the bounty from, the VC? I don't know where
they got it. Jane found it. I don't know where she
got it. Do you have any opinion on why there's still
MIAs in Vietnam? I don't know why. Evidently
there's some somewhere, either bodies or alive.
I can't imagine them being alive, but there could
be. I think if there is, then we should go get them
out. But I've thought that all along. I've thought
that. You know, we should have went and got them a
long time ago, if there was even a thought that they
were in there. I think we should have. I don't think
they really knew that they were there until the
prisoners of war started returning. Yeah. Oh, I
don't either. But, you know, we knew they had
prisoners before. We didn't know how many or
anything, probably, but we knew they were there.
And there was an attempt, you know, but
Yeah, I think if there's any suspicion, I would go.
You told me the other day that they told you that you
were supposed to avoid, act so that you could avoid
any international incidents. Could you
elaborate a little bit on that? Well, being told
that, you didn't know what that meant. other than
you weren't supposed to get involved in anything
that would cause repercussions from the South
Vietnamese. And we had a couple of things that
happened. One particular one, we had a security
policeman that was involved with a prostitute on
the installation. And like I said, that
installation belonged to the Vietnamese. we paid
rent for the landing strips and we built them but we
had to pay to use them yeah so but anyway this
security policeman got in trouble with the
prostitute there and what had happened they left
he went to her house and she wanted money when they
got there and He wouldn't give it to her, so she
started screaming. The Vietnamese Quang Cong
military police were passing and heard it. So they
stopped and captured this security policeman and
take him and lock him up in a connex, which is a metal
box about 10 foot cubed. You've probably seen
them. Go ahead and describe it. Okay, well, it's
probably 10 foot. uh cube you know the sides are all
10 foot probably pretty close to the size of it and
it's solid metal anyway they locked him up in there
we didn't know where he was somebody one of the guys
had seen it so turned it in to our commander which
was he was a lieutenant colonel and the base
commander that was a vietnamese was a major I don't
remember his name now, but he was a major. And so I
found out he was in this Connex. So our colonel took
some guys in some machine gun jeeps. We had lots of
machine gun jeeps. And he took several with him and
went down to QC headquarters and told the QC to
release this security policeman. They told him
no, that he was... He was arrested and locked up for
rape. And so this lieutenant colonel told him. He
said, I want him out. And I want him out right now. So
the Vietnamese base commander, the major, showed
up. And the major pulled a pistol on our commander.
What rank was he? Our commander. He was a
lieutenant colonel. OK. And so he told him, he
said, you've got one hour to release this security
policeman. And he said, if you don't, I'll turn
every machine gun jeep I got loose on your
headquarters. And in an hour, he was out. They
released him. But the next day, the guy wasn't
there anymore. So that's what you were talking
about, the shifting back to the United States?
That's what we were told. He has gone home. Because
they'd have probably killed him if he had stayed.
You ever heard those called the sweat blocks? The
hot blocks? No. But I knew a lot of guys that got
locked up in them. A lot of QCs that got locked up in
them. But
anyway, the national incidents, you know, you
didn't do anything to offend or you wasn't
supposed to. Do you feel that your friends died for
nothing? No. I feel like, no, I don't. Again, you
know, we all go back, it all goes back to the fact
that no one knew how the Vietnam War was going to
end. Um, You know, to say it makes me angry to hear
someone say that guys died for nothing in Vietnam
or fought for nothing, because that's a lie. The
kind of people I expect to hear that from is a person
that deserted to Canada instead of having to go to
the service. That's like a cop out. Those guys died
fighting, and they You know, they were fighting as
hard as they possibly could. They didn't want to
die. But they were fighting for a cause. And a lot of
those guys died,
you know, from heroics doing things that they
didn't have to do. And no, I don't think they died
for nothing. I don't think they died for a cause.
Whatever that turns out to be, the war, whatever,
Somebody else has got to be responsible for that.
And, you know, for it being for the wrong reason, if
it did something wrong, then I think somebody else
is responsible for that. I think that guy that
fought out there was completely innocent. I think
he was fighting for the right reason.
Have you ever heard it said that the Vietnam War was
a civil war going on between the internal and the
country? Yes.
I just mentioned that this was a civil war between
the two countries, between North and South, much
like the North and South in the United States, in
which no foreign country intervened. And yet we
went over there and intervened there. do you think
we should have gone in there in the first place,
irregardless of how you feel about defending your
country or going to war for the United States? Then
you're not asking me as a soldier or as a citizen,
but as a politician. So you look at it as a political
standpoint. Oh, really? Yeah, I do, yeah. Okay. So
my asking you that question then puts it not as a
soldier's, Me asking you as a soldier, but as
though you were a politician. Or as a soldier or a
citizen, instead of being the politician. I think
I could answer that. Do you think we should have
been there in the first place?
My understanding, the way I was told and the way I
understood it, we were there to stop communist
aggression.
which was the North, and the South wanted
democracy. Am I not right? That was the theory,
yes. Okay, all right. If that was the case, then I
think it wasn't wrong to be there if the South
wanted us to be there. But they really didn't. You
already stated that because you said they didn't
want you in their villages. Well, now I said that.
Because of that bomb, because of that Phantom 4
bomb. Yeah, I don't know, I don't know that that was
a feeling of the South, you know. I don't know that
that was, evidently it wasn't a feeling of the
government in South Vietnam. Well, that was the
Saigon government, though. Well, it represented
the South, or the people. So, you know, evidently
they wanted us there, or we wouldn't have been
there, I don't believe. But I think we went there. I
don't think it was a lot different, I don't
believe, than Korea.
You had North and South Korea. We were doing
practically the same thing. Is that right? No, it
was a little bit different. Yeah, somewhat.
Because the majority of the people that were in
South Vietnam had come from the North and went down
to the South, and that was not true in Korea. Yeah.
Korea did have some differences in Korea. But most
of those people that went from the North to the
South went there because they wanted democracy,
because they wanted freedom. They didn't have
that in the North. Ho Chi Minh did not let them have
that in the election. Do you know why? No. Because
he knew he'd lose. Is that right? So he wouldn't let
him have it. He was killed. He was killed
eventually. So that was, you know, as
an individual, as a voting citizen or a soldier or
whatever, again, I don't think it was for me to
question or make the judgment whether or not we
should be there. But the fact that we were ordered
to go, I think you have to make a decision. Either
you're going to live in this country and do what
you're supposed to do and what you're asked to do,
like they have been ever since this country
started, or move.
So then you very definitely feel, as you stated
earlier, that we should not have pulled out.
No, I didn't say that we shouldn't have pulled out.
You said you should have stayed there until we won
the war, that we could have won the war. I said that
we could have won it. We could have, I think, at any
time. Well, it seems to me that maybe I'm wrong, I'm
misunderstanding. If
the politicians had stayed out of it and let the...
military fighting and stayed there and won the
war, then there wouldn't have been any need to pull
out. No, I don't believe there would have been. I
believe if we would have fought that war like we
fought World War II, the majority of the battles in
World War II, it would have been over. In World War
II, the difference was that we were fighting for
territory. That's right. But we were not fighting
for territory in Vietnam. But we should have been.
You mean to go up into the North and move up and just
flush it all out? I think you had to do that. So
that's where to bring back in your bombings that
you were talking about. They just came in and
surprised the bombings and bombed the daylights
out of these people. Civilians, you know, one
thing that I can elaborate on very definitely is
that we never want to see a war in this country. If a
person has ever seen, witnessed a war-torn
country, and when you do, you think about home and
what it does to the country, we never want to see
that happen here. The thing about it, and one of the
reasons is because when there's a war, like
Germany or wherever, when there's a war,
civilians pay the price. Children pay the price.
Women pay the price. It doesn't just get the men. I
believe, I think history proves that you can't
just single out the men. and win the war. I think you
can't, like we did, I don't think you can warn
villages and have all the people get out. And, you
know, villages weren't nothing. half of them
lived underground anyway back years ago in the
wars they didn't in the first world war for
instance they didn't bomb for a long time they
didn't bomb anything might kill civilians and it
was later on and then the atrocities that Hitler
and the Nazis did the whole policy was changed and
they started bombing and it's carried over into it
and a lot of the Americans people felt that it was
carried too far in Vietnam when I don't really
think I personally lived through this and was
older than you are and was aware of more of what was
going on but yet I didn't know anything that was
going on. It's kind of a mixed metaphor to say that I
knew what was going on because I was being lied to. I
really didn't know what was going on. I think the
media hurt the war. I blame the media for a lot of the
problems with Vietnam. Lieutenant Kelly, for
instance, you know, in the My Lai incident. Yeah,
because in the My Lai incident, I don't think he
was... I felt at the time that he was innocent of
doing it deliberately. Yeah, well. And from what
I've learned since then, I don't see how he could
have avoided it. How anybody over there could have
avoided killing civilians. Well, I don't think he
can. I know that I think he killed a lot of people
needlessly, probably. But in the first place, in
that thing, It shouldn't have ever been exposed to
the American people. It should have been kept
within the military and dealt with there. If he was
guilty of what they said he was guilty of, then he
should have been held, you know, a military
court-martial should have been held, which it
was, but it was wide open to the public. And it
shouldn't have been. And it shouldn't have been.
It should have been confined to military people
only, and it shouldn't have been publicized at
all. But the people... demanded it, you know, so
they gave it to them, you know, and they gave them
Kelly, too. Are you familiar with, it's Kelly.
Kelly. Are you familiar with the Pentagon Papers?
No. Well, the Pentagon Papers were the, McNamara
went over there and wrote all these documents,
30-some-odd documents on what was going on in the
Vietnam War, and it was supposed to be top secret in
a man named Ellsberg. He took it out, it was top
secret, he took it out and gave it to the New York
Times and it went to the Supreme Court. The Supreme
Court ruled that the newspapers had a right to it
and they started publishing it. And that's when
the American people started finding out what was
really going on in Vietnam, which they should have
known all along. Because that's what happened
during the Second World War, they knew about what
was going on. What they didn't know about was that
in the Second World War, it was just similar to
this, to the Vietnam War in a very minute sense, is
that Roosevelt was trying, just like LBJ,
to get the war started. Roosevelt tried
everything he could, saying he was keeping us out
of the war, to get us into the war, and finally we got
into the war with the Japanese, which he was well
aware of. According to historical. Would you
have, after you came back, you spent one year
there, would you have gone back for another second
tour after you came back? Would I have gone back?
Under what kind of circumstances? Would you have
just taken another tour back to Vietnam? I didn't.
No, but would you have if you'd had a chance? I had a
chance. Anybody did. I mean, you can extend. Why
didn't you go back? I liked home too much. But even
after you came back, a lot of men did go back for a
second and third tour. Some did, yeah. I don't know
the figures on it, but I do know that some did. Oh,
yeah, they did. Some guys did it for money. Some
guys did it for, some guys are weird and just did it.
Well, that, and some guys probably did it for
patriotic reasons. I don't know. What was it like
when you came home? And like coming home from going
on vacation. Like flying in anywhere, getting off
the plane, going away. You know, when we came back,
you know, we landed in San Francisco. And I mean,
you know, it probably the greatest moment,
greatest feeling I've ever had in my life was
getting home, you know, coming home. And, uh, when
we landed in, you know, there was no parties
waiting for us or no people, you know, yeah,
nothing like that. I mean, it wasn't anybody. I
mean, we were, it was early in the morning and, uh,
cold, which we wasn't used to. And, uh, So we, you
know, we got on our different flights and flew
home. And when you got to your hometown, there
wasn't, you know, you're just there. Not any big
hoopla like there had been before? No, nothing.
How were you treated as a Vietnam veteran? I wasn't
treated bad. I wasn't treated anyway, I don't
suppose. You just felt like you were ignored.
Well, nobody said anything at all, you know, I
mean. I know of guys that went through some pretty
bad things that came home, you know. But we didn't
have as much problem, I don't think, in Texas as
they did up north. Why? There was more.
I don't know why, unless it's because it's more of a
rural type state. Now, maybe in big cities they may
have had more. I don't know. But, you know, I live in
a small town. Yes, sir. we didn't have any
demonstrations or anything like that going on,
you know, or, or, uh, anybody meeting us at the
plane or anything and giving us a hard time, you
know, that happened in a lot of places, but it
didn't, uh, I had trouble adjusting when I came
back out. Uh, when I came, we worked at night all the
time. We were, we were not out much in the daytime
and, uh, So we were white as a, you know, as a sheet.
And so we'd lay out in the sun before we came home to
try to get our skin back to a natural color, you
know. And we got to where, you know, you even got to
where you could see good at night. I got to where I
could see unbelievably good, I guess, because you
adjusted to the darkness. But anyway, when we came
home, couldn't sleep. And so I'd stay up at night
and sleep in the daytime. And I did that for a long
time, you know, before, after we got back. Did you
start into the law business right after that? No. I
was doing the service. That seems to be like a night
job. How did you manage that? Well, of course,
Social Security policemen do work at night. Yeah.
So you just worked a night shift. But I was, yeah. I
was, no, I had a problem. You know, I had 30 days
before I went back in. you know, back on duty. But,
you know, it was hard to do, hard to adjust. It was
kind of like being in another world, you know,
after being a year. All of a sudden, you know,
that's one of the funny things about that. If you
came back on a ship, a lot of them did in World War II,
you had two months or so to get ready to come back.